# Getting-and-Cleaning-Data-Project
Project for Getting and Cleaning Data Coursera, site https://www.coursera.org/course/getdata

Analysis of data generated with the accelerometer from the Samsung Galaxy S smartphone.
The data set analysed was obtained in the Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones Data Set. A full description is available at the site: http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones

Here are the data for the project: https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip

#Contents:

- CodeBook.md - Describes the experiment data and the steps taken to summarize the data.

- run_analysis.R - R script to merge, clean-up, transform, and summarize the experiment data.

- testTrainDataAvg.txt - Output file generated by the run_analysis.R script.

- README.md - This file.

#Getting started:

Read the CodeBook to understand this project, the steps taken in the analysis, and the output file.

Download the ziped file of the experiment data to the workspace of your R project.

Unzip the file maintaning their directory structure and files.

Check if there are a directory called UCI HAR Dataset. This is the directory with the dataset and more informations about it. 

Run the run_analysis.R script.

# Description of the analysis performed by script run_analysis.R

The R script run_analysis.R, reads the processed experiment data and performs the following steps to get it into the summary described in the project.
  
- Load the libraries used in the project (plyr library);
- Read in files with test and train datasets to data frames;
- Give names to the data frames based on the file features.txt;
- Join the information of subject id and activity id into the data frames test and train;
- Merge the test and train data frames into onde data frame;
- Select the columns with mean or std (standard deviation) measurements to a new data frame;
- Replace the activity id with the activity labels based on the file activity_labels.txt;
- Remove the unnecessary data from the environment;
- Fix the variable name of some columns that repeated the word Body in its name. Replace the word BodyBody with Body;
- Remove some invalid characters from the column names;
- Aggregate the data by subject and activity, calculating the mean of each variable into a new data frame.
- Include the word avg in the beginning of each variable.
- Write the summary dataset to file testTrainDataAvg.txt. 

